AWS Relational Database Service, or RDS,
is a managed service that launches and maintains one of six databases for you.
You have the option of SQL Server, Oracle,
MariaDB, PostgreSQL, AWS Aurora, and MySQL.
AWS offers reserved instances for RDS similar to EC2,
and purchasing reserved database capacity can save a lot of money.
Using AWS RDS also provides customers with the advantage of AWS manage services.
You don't have to worry about managing the hardware,
supporting the database or patching or updating.
When you use AWS RDS service to manage your databases,
you are handing over some control in exchange for AWS expertise and support,
freeing you to innovate in other areas of your stack.
If your application requires you to have complete control of your operating system,
you have the option of installing any database you like on EC2 instances.
You can even bring an existing license to save money on
SQL Server and Oracle implementations.
While relational databases can scale,
they're mostly limited to vertical scaling,
where costs can really begin to accelerate.
To reduce database costs,
you can purchase reserve capacity based on the database instance class,
the database engine, and redundancy such as read replicas and high availability,
multi availability zone deployments.
Oracle and SQL server have additional considerations,
because for these two database engines,
you have the option of using your own license and saving money there as well.
Similar to EC2, you save money by committing to paying for
a one or three year term for a particular database instance class and database engine.
An example would be committing to a three-year term for
PostgreSQL database dot M5 extra large in the US East one region,
saving you about 40 percent off the on-demand cost,
depending on when you pay your reserved bill.
You save the most by sending AWS payment in full at the beginning of the three-year term,
but the savings is only about two to six percent.
So if your company budget doesn't allow for a large one time expenditure,
it might be best for you to pay the monthly bill instead of paying it all up front.
Before you decide how you'd like to pay,
make sure you have a clear picture of the costs,
the payment options, that discount,
and how that will affect your company down the line.
Costs and discounts vary by region,
so make your selections with costs in mind.
Reserving instances is the bedrock of cost savings in AWS,
and for production applications,
there should be no other option.
Reserved instances are long-term commitment,
so making sure you've selected the right database instance is important.
As of now, AWS doesn't allow you to
make changes to the instance type once you've selected it.
As a Cloud architect,
one of your responsibilities may be to perform load testing and
conduct a monitoring exercise before committing to an RDS reserved purchase.
You will want to make sure your application is exposed to every condition during
the monitoring period that you can expect it to encounter over the reservation term.
So you want to capture the highs and lows,
and especially the outliers.
Based on the metrics you captured during the monitoring period,
you should be able to make a wise choice when it comes to your reserve database instance.
Non-relational databases such as
DynamoDB are appropriate for mobile applications, gaming,
and digital advertising because they deliver millisecond fast performance at
any scale on the platform of an AWS managed service.
So once again, security,
backup, restore, and caching are taken care of by AWS.
DynamoDB pricing is primarily based on write capacity units and read capacity units.
But you'll also pay for auto-scaling, indexing,
data transfer, and caching,
much the same as AWS RDS.
Hundreds of thousands of AWS customers have selected AWS managed
databases like RDS and DynamoDB for their performance, reliability and scalability.
As you began to explore these database options in your own environment,
remember that reserved instances can greatly reduce costs,
and part of what you're paying for is AWS expertise.
Their expertise is in providing you with database,
hardware and services that would exceed what you'd be able to
accomplish yourself without a team of legendary DBAs.